Forwarder Guide (#1121)
Graylog2/documentation: pages/enterprise/cloud_forwarder.rst

###############
Cloud Forwarder
###############

************
Introduction
************
The Graylog Cloud Forwarder is the solution to get your data into Graylog Cloud. Graylog Cloud allows you to set up
a connection so one or more Forwarders can send messages. Since it’s hosted in the cloud you can run the Forwarder 

> anywhere. In addition, your data has improved uptime and reliability.

Reviewer: > In addition, your data has improved uptime and reliability.

Can this statement be clarified? I do not understand the meaning in the context of the Forwarder.

Author: I'm just gonna remove it. I've changed that section so many times it has no context anymore

> .. image:: /images/forwarder_diagram.png

Reviewer: This digram is excellent! I love the design, and how it shows the flow to Cloud. 

Question: It says "TLS for Data and Management" between the Customer and Cloud environments. This is a little confusing and hints to TLS being the thing which provides the data and management (and not the secure conduit). I don't think the data and management bits are that important here. Perhaps just "Secure TLS Channel" would be enough to show that the link is secure. 

If you really want to still include the Data and Management parts, then perhaps "TLS for Log Data and Management communication" is better, but that's a little long. :)

> The Cloud Forwarder is not a one-and-done migration tool. In fact, it’s an integral part of your cloud architecture. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud Forwarder is not a one-and-done migration tool, it’s an integral part of your cloud architecture. 
```

> Your Forwarder must run 24-7 in your environment in order to get data in the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Forwarder must run 24-7 in your environment in order to send your log data to Graylog Cloud.
```

********

> Security

Reviewer: I really like this Security section. Well done!

********

The Forwarder connects to Graylog Cloud over TLS. This ensures data moves securely and reliably. 

Another layer of security required for the Forwarder is an API token. To ensure only Forwarders you trust can connect
to your Graylog Cloud instance, Forwarders must be assigned and configured with a token to authenticate with Graylog 
Cloud. Any tokens used by the Forwarder must belong to the user Forwarder System User (built-in). You can find 

> information about creating an `API token in the documentation <https://docs.graylog.org/en/4.0/pages/configuration/rest_api.html?highlight=token#creating-and-using-access-token>`__.

Reviewer: I think it's better to use an RST link here instead of an absolute web link. Similar to how the `Virtual Machine Appliances` link on the [Architecture](https://github.com/Graylog2/documentation/blob/c9cc05aac3513338b95f191479708d749175aa4d/pages/architecture.rst#L24) page works.

*************
Input Profile
*************

Input Profiles are a set of Inputs that can be configured to run on one or more Forwarders of your choice. 

> This aspect is critical to your Forwarder because it provides a gateway to move data to Graylog Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This aspect is critical to your Forwarder, because it provides a gateway to move data to Graylog Cloud.
```

> Input Profiles helps you to avoid re-doing the same configuration for all Forwarders since you can start new Forwarders 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input Profiles help you to avoid re-doing the same configuration for all Forwarders since you can start new Forwarders 
```

and assign them a set of Inputs you already defined and tested beforehand. This is especially helpful if you want to collect the same kind of logs in different parts of your Infrastructure or to have a more redundant set-up.

> As you create your Cloud Forwarder, you must create an Input Profile from the wizard, explained in Add Inputs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a Cloud Forwarder for the first time, you must create an Input Profile from the wizard, explained in Add Inputs. 
```

It might help to clarify that this only applies for the first Forwarder. Please ignore this comment if you think it's better as currently written. :)

Provide a descriptive name for the Input Profile, a short description of its intention, and then create all the input 
necessary for the Forwarder.

*************
Configuration
*************

File
====

On the client-side of your Forwarder, modify the configuration file to address your Graylog host and authentication. 
The default values for ``forwarder.conf`` are:

* ``forwarder_server_hostname``: (required) The Graylog Cloud Forwarder ingest hostname (eg. ``ingest-<your-account>.graylog.cloud``). It’s found on the Forwarder Setup Wizard in Graylog Cloud.
* ``forwarder_grpc_api_token``: (required) The API Token for authenticating the Forwarder.

Here’s an example of the configuration file, with the following values:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ forwarder_server_hostname = ingest-<your-account-url>.graylog.cloud
    $ forwarder_grpc_api_token = <your-api-token>

Wizard
======

> When you login to the Cloud instance, you’ll walk through a guided process to configure your Forwarder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you login to your Cloud instance, you can use a guided process to configure your Forwarder.
```

This seems to hint that the Forwarder setup will be immediately presented after login. What do you think about this adjustment?

.. image:: /images/forwarder_intro_wizard.png

Complete the wizard by following the sections below:

#. Go to the Graylog user interface to select *Forwarders*, found in the *System* menu.
#. Click the *New Forwarder* button.
#. Press the *Start configuration* button to navigate to the *Select Forwarder* accordion.

Install Forwarder
-----------------

> #. Download the Forwarder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Please contact Graylog Support to obtain the appropriate Forwarder installation for your Graylog Cloud version. 
```
Download links for the Forwarder are not quite done yet (but are coming soon). See https://github.com/Graylog2/graylog-plugin-cloud/issues/815

So, I suggest changing to this until they are available. We can raise another PR once they're ready.

#. Press *Continue* to navigate to the next step in the accordion.

Create API Token
----------------

> We recommend using a single API token for each Forwarder, ensuring that you can revoke tokens for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using a unique API token for each Forwarder, ensuring that you can revoke tokens for 
```

individual Forwarders no longer used.

.. image:: /images/forwarder_api_token.png

#. Enter your *Token Name* in the available field.
#. Create the new name by clicking the *Create Token* button.

Configure Forwarder (Accordion/Wizard Menu)
-------------------------------------------

> .. image:: /images/forwarder_config.png

Reviewer: The `forwarder_grpc_tls_trust_chain_cert_file` config option is no longer needed, so an updated screen shot from `test-dev` is needed. I am sorry about the late notice on this. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3423655/113314405-96926800-930c-11eb-9feb-44b0c4aa3a5f.png)

#. Open your text editor of choice to access your ``forwarder.conf`` file
#. Click *Copy as configuration snippet* to copy the configuration details displayed to your ``forwarder.conf`` file, i.e. ``forwarder_server_hostname`` and ``forwarder_grpc_api_token`` with corresponding values.
#. Paste all values in the configuration file, and save the new changes.

Start the Forwarder
-------------------

Before you begin the last step in the accordion:

#. Open your terminal
#. Locate the startup script found in your application directory. 
#. Run the startup script with the command ``./bin/graylog-forwarder run --configfile forwarder.conf``. 
#. Return to the wizard after the Forwarder successfully runs.

> 

Reviewer: I think these startup steps are only for the tarball installation. Should that be indicated here?

Select Forwarder
----------------

> Once the Forwarder makes a connection to Graylog Cloud, see it listed among your routers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Forwarder makes a connection to Graylog Cloud, see it listed among any other new Forwarders. 
```

> .. image:: /images/forwarder_select.png

Reviewer: There are quire a lot of Forwarders listed here, and several have the "instance" hostname. What do you think about removing some of those Forwarders and taking the screen shot again with only one Forwarder so that it shows a bit more clearly that the new Forwarder shows up there?

    .. code-block:: bash
    
        $ sudo vi /etc/graylog/forwarder/forwarder.conf

#. Start the service:

    .. code-block:: bash

        $ sudo systemctl start graylog-forwarder.service

Docker Installation
===================

Additionally, your Forwarder is available as a Docker image. Regardless of your installation method, you’re required
to create a digital certificate to ensure better security. The forwarder is also available as a docker image. 
To download the image, run the following command: ``docker pull graylog/graylog-forwarder:<release-version>``.

To run the container, you will need to pass it the following environment variables:

    .. code-block:: bash

        $ GRAYLOG_FORWARDER_SERVER_HOSTNAME
        $ GRAYLOG_FORWARDER_GRPC_API_TOKEN

You'll also need to mount the certificate file as a volume. Here is an example command:

    .. code-block:: bash

        $ docker run -e GRAYLOG_FORWARDER_SERVER_HOSTNAME=ingest.<SERVER NAME> -e GRAYLOG_FORWARDER_GRPC_API_TOKEN=<INSERT_API_TOKEN_HERE> -v /path/to/cert/cert.pem:/etc/graylog/forwarder/cert.pem graylog/graylog-forwarder:<release-version>

****************************************

> Monitoring Forwarder Activity and Health

Reviewer: Excellent! Thanks for including this section! It's very important for users.

****************************************

After you connect your Forwarder to Graylog Cloud, get to know methods to access metrics and other information 
on your Forwarder(s) and corresponding input(s). Here are a few methods to analyze and extract details on Forwarder 
activity:

> * Review active Forwarder(s) in the UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Review active Forwarder(s) in the Graylog Cloud user interface
```
Just clarifying a bit more where to go for finding the Forwarders list

> * Call REST endpoints to consume information on health and list of inputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Call Forwarder REST endpoints to consume information on health and list of inputs
```

        scrape_configs:
        - job_name: prometheus
          honor_timestamps: true
          scrape_interval: 15s
          scrape_timeout: 10s
          metrics_path: /api/metrics/prometheus
          scheme: http
          static_configs:
          - targets:
            - host.docker.internal:9001
      
#. Run this Docker command to start the container:

    .. code-block:: bash

            docker run \
              -p 9090:9090 \
              -v /tmp/prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml \
              prom/prometheus
        
*****************
Resiliency Models
*****************
        
When you think about scaling your deployment -- that is, add more Forwarders -- you must incorporate tools, procedures, 
and policies that let you continue operating in the case of a major outage – widespread, long-lasting, destructive, or 
all three. If all the above pose a threat to your Forwarder consider both message recovery and load balancing. 
        
Message Recovery
================
        
The Cloud Forwarder’s disk journal is capable of caching data in case of a network outage. From there, they are read 
and sent to Graylog Cloud. 
        

> As mentioned in the `Output Framework chapter <https://docs.graylog.org/en/4.0/pages/integrations/output_framework.html?highlight=Journal#on-disk-journal>`__, if the internet is unavailable, 

Reviewer: Same as link above. I think it's better to use [RST links](https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/references.html#use-a-custom-anchor).
